.TH SLACKPKG.CONF 5 "Jan 2008" slackpkg-2.70 ""
.SH NAME
.B slackpkg.conf
\- Configuration data for slackpkg

.SH DESCRIPTION

The slackpkg.conf file contains information for
.B slackpkg
(8), an automated tool for managing Slackware Linux packages.

The slackpkg.conf file is a sequence of shell script variables, and each 
variable controls one aspect of slackpkg.  Comments begin with the # 
character and end at end of the line, and comments may appear anywhere
inside the slackpkg.conf file.  If some variable appears more than once 
in the file, slackpkg will use the value that was defined last.

Many variables can be overridden by options passed to slackpkg on the command
line. If you need to override the value of 
.B VARIABLE 
, pass 
.B -variable=value 
on the command line just before the slackpkg action. Multiple variables may
be overridden.

EXAMPLE:  slackpkg -batch=yes -default_answer=y upgrade-all

For configuration options that have only two states, possible values are
either "on" or "off" unless otherwise indicated.

The different configuration options are:

.TP 5
.B ARCH
.br
Chooses the system architecture.  Only the x86 and s390 architectures have
official Slackware versions, and slackpkg is tested only on the x86 arch; 
however, you can use it in other Slackware ports like Slackintosh or 
ArmedSlack. 

The default value of ARCH is i[3456]86 (x86).

.TP 5
.B TEMP
.br
Defines the location to which slackpkg will download the packages before
installing/upgrading them. 

The default value of TEMP is /var/cache/packages.

.TP 5
.B WORKDIR
.br
Defines the directory for package lists, file lists, and other information
used by slackpkg as it works.  Do not change the value of this variable
unless you know what you are doing.

The default value of WORKDIR is /var/lib/slackpkg.

.TP 5
.B WGETFLAGS
.br
Selects special options for wget.  If you need to use multiple options,
remember to put them between double quotes.  

The default value of WGETFLAGS is "\--passive-ftp"

.TP 5
.B DELALL
.br
If set to "on", all downloaded files will be removed after slackpkg performs
install or upgrade (this does NOT have any impact when slackpkg is run with
"download").  If set to "off", the files will be kept in the directory
defined in TEMP (as described above). 

The default value of DELALL is "on". 
.br
From command line, you can use -delall=value.

.TP 5
.B CHECKPKG
.br
Enables (on) or disables (off) the checking of MD5 checksums of all downloaded 
packages before installing or upgrading them.  

The default value of CHECKPKG is "on".
.br
From command line, you can use -checkpkg=value.

.TP 5
.B CHECKGPG
.br
Enables (on) or disables (off) the check of GPG signature for each package 
before install or upgrade.

The default value of CHECKGPG is "on".
.br
From command line, you can use -checkgpg=value.

.TP 5
.B FIRST, SECOND, THIRD, FOURTH and FIFTH
.br
These lines select the priority at which directories on the mirror will have
when slackpkg looks for packages.  If a package is found in more than one place, 
the package in FIRST gets first priority, then SECOND, then THIRD, then FOURTH,
and finally, the package found in FIFTH.  

Default values (in order): /patches /slackware /extra /pasture /testing

.TP 5
.B MAIN
.br
Select which place defined in 
.B FIRST, SECOND, THIRD, FOURTH 
or 
.B FIFTH
\, is the main distribution.  On an official Slackware system, this will be
"slackware" (which is the default).  This should always be the directory which
contains the Slackware package set series (A, AP, D, E, F, ...)  This may have
a different name in the unofficial Slackware ports, so adjust it as needed.

.TP 5
.B POSTINST
.br
Enables (on) or disables (off) slackpkg's post-installation features, such 
as checking for new (*.new) configuration files and new kernel images, and 
prompts you for what it should do.  

The default value of POSTINST is "on". 
.br
From command line, you can use -postinst=value.
 
.TP 5
.B ONOFF
.br
The ONOFF variable sets the initial behavior of the dialog interface. 
If you set this to "on" then all packages will be selected by default. 
If you prefer the opposite option (all unchecked), then set this to "off". 

The default value of ONOFF is "on". 
.br
From command line, you can use -onoff=value.

.TP 5
.B DOWNLOAD_ALL
.br
If this variable is set to "on", all files will be downloaded before the 
requested operation (install or upgrade) is performed.   If set to "off", 
then the files will be downloaded and the operation (install/upgrade) performed
one by one.

The default value of DOWNLOAD_ALL is "off". 
.br
From command line, you can use -download_all=value.

.TP 5
.B DIALOG
.br
Enables (on) or disables (off) the dialog interface. 

The default value of DIALOG is "on". 
.br
From command line, you can use -dialog=value.

.TP 5
.B BATCH
.br
Enables (on) or disables (off) the non-interactive mode.  When run in batch
mode, slackpkg will not prompt the user for anything; instead, all questions 
will get DEFAULT_ANSWER (see below).  
.br
If you perform an upgrade using this mode, you will need to run 
"slackpkg new-config" later to find and merge .new files.

The default value of BATCH is "off". 
.br
From command line, you can use -batch=value.

.TP 5
.B DEFAULT_ANSWER
.br
This is the default answer to questions when slackpkg prompts the user for
some information.  This is used only in non-interactive mode (when BATCH=yes
or the user turns batch mode on via the command line); otherwise, this 
variable has no effect.
.br
Valid values are "y" or "n".

The default value of DEFAULT_ANSWER is "n". 
.br
From command line, you can use -default_answer=value.

.SH FILES
.TP 5
.B /etc/slackpkg/slacpkg.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR slackpkg (8)
.BR pkgtool (8)
.BR installpkg (8)
.BR upgradepkg (8)
.BR removepkg (8)
